	
        How do you go about solving a problem of classifying some data without having any labels associated with the data?


   Consider a Social Network Analysis problem. Let’s look at a group of people’s Social Network and get data about

		    Who are the people that are exchanging messages back and forth.
		    Who are the group of people posting regularly on certain kind of groups, etc.

     And coming up with an analysis and classify certain kinds of people together without labelling/naming this as any group. This kind of Machine Learning
 Classification problem is termed as Un-Supervised Learning. K-Means is by far the most popular and widely used algorithm in the Un-Supervised Learning.

     - SEE PICTURE figure-1   

         How it works?

      Let me demonstrate with an example given by Andrew Ng given in his Machine Learning Algorithm tutorials. Consider these unlabelled data points.

      - SEE PICTURE figure-2 
      

      The first step would be to randomly initialize cluster centroids. In this example I am taking the number of centroids as 2. But this number can vary as to how many 
 unlabelled groups you want to divide your data into.


       - SEE PICTURE figure-3 


      The second step is Cluster Assignment step. So, we go through each and every data point and depending upon whether it’s closer to Red or Blue Cluster Centroid, color the 
 data points as Red or Blue.


       - SEE PICTURE figure-4 

      The third step is the Move Centroid step. This step involved moving the each Cluster Centroid to position derived by calculating the mean of the corresponding colored 
 data points. This means Blue point would be moved to the Mean we get from all the Blue data points and similarly for Red.


       - SEE PICTURE figure-5 

      Step Second and third would be repeated till the time the Cluster Centroid do not move any further.

       - SEE PICTURE figure-6  and PICTURE figure-7             



       What is Cost Function?
       In this case, the Cost function is the total sum of the squared distance of every point to its corresponding cluster centroid.
       

         - SEE PICTURE figure-8 

      The objective of K-Means id to minimize the Cost Function.

 

      A Proof of Concept was done to demonstrate the accuracy of this algorithm by supplying training data set to MLLIB library of Apache Spark. Please refer this for setting 
  up Apache Spark on your machine. Marks were collected of the First Semester students from an Engineering Institute.
